Entity Configurations and Metadata for PID/(Q)EAA Providers and RPs (#328)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-eaa-issuance.rst

.. note::

>     **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance needs to check if the PID/(Q)EAA Provider is part of the Federation, obtaining its protocol specific Metadata. A non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID/(Q)EAA Provider is represented within the section :ref:`Entity Configuration of PID/(Q)EAA Providers`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Federation Check:** The Wallet Instance must verify whether the PID/(Q)EAA Provider is a member of the Federation, obtaining its protocol specific Metadata. A non-normative example of a response from the endpoint **.well-known/openid-federation** with the **Entity Configuration** and the **Metadata** of the PID/(Q)EAA Provider is represented within the section :ref:`Entity Configuration of PID/(Q)EAA Providers`.
```

      - UNIX Timestamp with the time of JWT issuance.
      - :rfc:`9126` and :rfc:`7519`.
    * - **response_type**
      - MUST be set to ``code``.
      - :rfc:`6749`
    * - **response_mode**

>       - It MUST be a string indicating the "*response_mode*", as specified in `OAuth 2.0 Multiple Response Type Encoding Practices <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html>`_. It MUST be one of the supported values (*response_modes_supported*) provided in the metadata of the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. The supported values MAY be *query* and *form_post.jwt* (see `[oauth-v2-jarm-03] <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-jarm-03.html#name-response-mode-form_postjwt>`__).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be a string indicating the "*response_mode*", as specified in `OAuth 2.0 Multiple Response Type Encoding Practices <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-multiple-response-types-1_0.html>`_. It MUST be one of the supported values (*response_modes_supported*) provided in the metadata of the PID/(Q)EAA Provider. The supported values MAY be *query* and or *form_post.jwt* (see `[oauth-v2-jarm-03] <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-jarm-03.html#name-response-mode-form_postjwt>`__).
```

      - See :ref:`Table of the HTTP parameters <table_http_request_claim>`.
    * - **response_mode**

>       - It informs the PID/(Q)EAA Provider of the mechanism to be used for returning parameters from the Authorization Endpoint. In case of *HTTP 302 Redirect Response* the value MUST be *query*. In this mode, Authorization Response parameters are encoded in the query string added to the redirect_uri when redirecting back to the Wallet Instance. In case of *HTTP POST Response* the value MUST be *form_post.jwt* according to `[oauth-v2-jarm-03] <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-jarm-03.html#name-response-mode-form_postjwt>`__. In this mode, Authorization Response parameters are specified into a JWT encoded as HTML form value that is auto-submitted in the User Agent, and thus is transmitted via the HTTP POST method to the Wallet Instance, with the result parameters being encoded in the body using the *application/x-www-form-urlencoded* format. The action attribute of the form MUST be the Redirection URI of the Wallet Instance. The method of the form attribute MUST be POST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It informs the PID/(Q)EAA Provider of the mechanism to be used for returning parameters from the Authorization Endpoint. In case of *HTTP 302 Redirect Response* the value MUST be *query*. In this mode, Authorization Response parameters are encoded in the query string added to the ``redirect_uri`` when redirecting back to the Wallet Instance. In case of *HTTP POST Response* the value MUST be *form_post.jwt* according to `[oauth-v2-jarm-03] <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-jarm-03.html#name-response-mode-form_postjwt>`__. In this mode, Authorization Response parameters are specified into a JWT encoded as HTML form value that is auto-submitted in the user-agent, and thus is transmitted via the HTTP POST method to the Wallet Instance, with the result parameters being encoded in the body using the *application/x-www-form-urlencoded* format. The action attribute of the form MUST be the Redirection URI of the Wallet Instance. The method of the form attribute MUST be POST.
```

      - [:rfc:`9126`].

.. note::

>   In the case of PID issuance, the Wallet Instance MAY provide the **idphinting** parameter in URL encoded String format, that conveys the HTTPS identifier of the Identity Provider authenticating the User. See `AARC-G061 - A specification for IdP hinting. <https://aarc-community.org/guidelines/aarc-g061/>`_ for more details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the case of PID issuance, the Wallet Instance MAY include the **idphinting** parameter as a URL encoded string. This parameter specifies the Identity Provider where the User wishes to authenticate.. See `AARC-G061 - A specification for IdP hinting. <https://aarc-community.org/guidelines/aarc-g061/>`_ for more details. 
```

>   In the case of PID issuance, optionally, the Wallet Instance MAY provide the additional **idphinting** parameter in URL-encoded String format, that conveys the HTTPS identifier of the Identity Provider authenticating the User. See `AARC-G061 - A specification for IdP hinting. <https://aarc-community.org/guidelines/aarc-g061/>`_ for more details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the case of PID issuance, the Wallet Instance MAY provide the **idphinting** parameter in URL encoded String format, that conveys the HTTPS identifier of the Identity Provider authenticating the User. See `AARC-G061 - A specification for IdP hinting. <https://aarc-community.org/guidelines/aarc-g061/>`_ for more details. 
```
